the investigation of the assassination
of president john f kennedy performance
of the intelligence agencies book 5
appendix b the FBI and the destruction
of the Oswald note in early July 1975 a
Dallas newsmen met with former FBI
Special Agent in Charge for Dallas J
Gordon shanklin the newsmen informed
shanklin that an unidentified source had
told him that Lee Harvey Oswald had
visited the FBI office in Dallas
sometime prior to the assassination and
had left a threatening note for Special
Agent James hasti who had been
conducting the FBI investigation of
Oswald the newsmen stated that neither
Oswald's visit nor the note were
reported to FBI headquarters officials
shanklin suggested that the newsmen
contact deputy associate director James
Adams at FBI headquarters on July
seventh 1975 the newsmen met in
Washington DC with Adams and director
Kelly and informed them of these
allegations the Attorney General was
advised on July eighth 1975 that the
bureau intended to conduct an inquiry
regarding these allegations later that
day director Kelly held a conference
with Adams shanklin the headquarters
agent assigned to the assassination case
the assistant director in charge of the
Inspection Division and the Dallas si si
Inspection Division was assigned
personal responsibility for directing
the FBI inquiry of the circumstances
surrounding the delivery and duplication
of the note the bureau's initial file
review failed to develop any information
indicating that Oswald had ever visited
the FBI field office
in Dallas or that he had left a note FBI
interviews with personnel assigned to
the Dallas field office in 1963
established that one Lee Harvey Oswald
did visit the office some two or three
weeks prior to the assassination to
Oswald asked to see si James hasti and
the pond being informed that he was not
in left a note frosty and three the note
was destroyed after the assassination
the evidence developed by the bureau
contained sharp conflicts the
investigation failed to establish one
whether the note was threatening in
nature and two at whose instruction the
note was destroyed rather than
attempting to draw conclusions from an
evidentiary record replete with factual
discrepancies the committee has decided
to set forth in summary fashion the
evidence developed by the bureau and the
committee highlighting those areas where
discrepancies exist the wording of the
note approximately one week or ten days
prior to November 22nd 1963 Lee Harvey
Oswald appeared at the reception desk in
the Dallas field office and asked to see
Special Agent James hasti after being
informed that he was not available
Oswald left an envelope with a note
inside for hasti the envelope was
unsealed and the note was partly visible
according to the receptionist's the note
read as follows quote let this be a
warning I will blow up the FBI and the
Dallas Police Department if you don't
stop bothering my wife signed Lee Harvey
Oswald end quote sometime later in the
day the receptionist's personally gave
the note to hostage
hasti recalled the notes wording as
quote if you have anything you want to
learn about me come talk to me directly
if you don't see sputtering my wife I
will take appropriate action and report
this to proper authorities end quote
hasti supervisor said he recalled that
the note contained some kind of threat
but could not remember the specifics
footnote the supervisor stated that the
note was on plane pier was either
handwritten or hand printed and was
threatening in nature and footnote aside
from the receptionist agent hasti and
the supervisor no one else interviewed
by the FBI recalled having seen the note
some other individuals indicated that
from conversations they had had with the
receptionist after the assassination
they understood that the note contained
a threat circumstances surrounding the
destruction of the note after reading
the note hasti placed it in his work box
where it remained until the day of the
assassination on the day of the
assassination hasti participated in an
interview of Oswald at the Dallas Police
Department when he returned to the field
office about an hour later hasti was
called into shankland office where he
met with his supervisor and shanklin one
of them displayed the note and asked
hasti to explain its content hasti told
them he had interviewed marina oswald at
the residence of Ruth Paine on November
first 1963 according to hasti during the
post assassination interview at the
Dallas Police Department Oswald
commented that hasti was the FBI agent
who had bothered his wife and that if
the agent wanted to know something about
Oswald he should have come and talked to
Oswald himself
according to Hussey shanklin ordered him
to prepare a memorandum detailing facts
pertaining to the note and his interview
with marina oswald and Ruth Paine hasti
testified that he did prepare such a
memorandum and delivered it to shanklin
on the evening of November 22nd 1963
hasti supervisor said that he had found
the note in hostage Burke box very soon
after the assassination of President
Kennedy he stated that he took the note
to Shankland office but had no
recollection of what happened to the
note or who may have had it thereafter
according to hasti approximately two
hours after Oswald had been pronounced
dead on November 24th his supervisor
told him that shanklin wanted to see
hasti testified that he was instructed
by shanklin to destroy both the note and
the November 22nd memorandum regarding
it and that he complied with these
instructions footnote deputy associate
FBI director James be Adams testified
before the subcommittee on civil and
constitutional rights of the House
Committee on the judiciary 1021 75 that
the agent who destroyed the note did so
to quote avoid embarrassment to the
bureau and quote shanklin denied any
knowledge of Oswald's visit to the
Dallas office and the note he also
maintained that he did not issue any
orders to destroy the note in fact
shanklin claimed that he had no
knowledge of this entire matter until
July 1975 footnote however a recently
retired Special Agent in an affidavit
submitted to the bureau stated that he
mentioned the note and the destruction
to shanklin while driving with him
our in August 1974 and footnote the
personnel assigned to the Dallas office
in November 1963 do not know whether
anyone at FBI headquarters was ever
informed of the Oswald visit note or
subsequent events however William
Sullivan who was an assistant director
of the bureau at the time of the
assassination has stated that he
discussed the Oswald case many times
with Shanklin and that shanklin stated
quote he had an internal problem
involving one of his agents who had
received a threatening message from
Oswald because the agent was
investigating Oswald end quote Sullivan
recalls that shanklin seemed disinclined
to discuss the matter other than to say
he was handling it as a personnel
problem with assistant to the director
John P more footnote Sullivan added that
he did not know whether other
headquarters officials were aware of the
note or that the note had been destroyed
in footnote Moore has denied under oath
any knowledge of the note or its
destruction similarly each of the other
living Bureau officials in the chain of
command of the two investigative
divisions which supervised to the
Kennedy assassination case furnished the
bureau with a sworn statement denying
any knowledge of this matter